Scrum Master for next week.

    Autumn Heyman

List at least 5 things the team did well and will continue doing.

    1. We met the goal we set to have our initial code/scrum tasks done by Wednesday evening.

    2. There was a lot of good, constructive feedback in the Slack channel.

    3. The team was able to pivot quickly and complete tasks after the need was seen to shift the model.

    4. Each team member is contributing their share and more to the success of the team.  Multiple times team members expressed when they were available to help as well if another needed help, was looking for guidance, code review, etc.

    5. The data wrangling and initial exploration brought up great ideas or points to consider. They were well-expressed in the Slack channel and created a generative energy for analysis moving into the coming week.

List at least 3 things the team did poorly and how you will mitigate them next sprint.

    1. The initial meeting we had at the beginning of the week seemed a bit flat (didn't feel in sync). I believe as a team, we did not really know each other or understand each others styles/backgrounds yet. It took some time to find our rhythm as a team.  Individually, we are each strong team members. Each member has demonstrated the desire to make room for each other and support each other. I believe by the end of the week we really started to gel and find that rhythm.

        How to mitigate: Continue to encourage open communication; continue to reach out individually/as a team if there seems to be a miscommunication or misunderstanding.
        Pay attention to the content of the daily-stand up forms to areas that can be improved or where members may need addiitional support of where life obstacles may have an affect.

    2. I believe there was some confusion amongst the team at the beginning. Trying to navigate through some of the obstacles and issues arose their seemed to be a bit of confusion and a bit of friction, but as the week unfolded, as we reached out to each other and as the scrum master reached out to us to help move through misunderstandings/friction things really came together. 

         How to mitigate: Continue to encourage open communication; continue to reach out individually/as a team if there seems to be a miscommunication or misunderstanding.


    3. With the different work styles and preferences, there was expression of a bit of a chaotic environment on the daily stand-up forms.  I believe this was attributed to a difference in work style preferences.

        How to mitigate: Now that I have seen how different team members have expressed their strenghts/weaknesses, work styles, etc. I will work to incorporate that into my role as scrum master next week. i.e. include agendas or relevant structure in situations it may be desired.

List shout-outs to any team members for excelling in any way.

    I'm going to go back to cover Week 1 and Week 2, since there was not an opportunity to give formal 'shout-outs' in Week 1.

    Bethel: Bethel has prior professional ecperience in data analysis, which has been an invaluable asset to have as a team.  As a certified scrum master, she took the reigns and was the perfect team member to lead us off this week as we tackled the data.  She reached out to the team to encourage communication when she saw it was needed.  She made herself available to lead even though she was traveling to work and guided us through the data wrangling process when our initial wrangling steps led to the consideration of moving to the more appropriate regression type.

    Erin: During the first week Erin took the initiative to set up a structured, productive team environment. She created well-thought and organized meeting agendas for our first week and a proposal for Week 2 before we moved to the weekly scrum master selection.  Erin has professional experience in the wine industry, and her expertise really kicked off the discussions that began the process of developing evaluation questions for our dataset.  When it had not been openly expressed previously, she offered the idea of completing data wrangling in both languages for use as we needed in the coming weeks so we didn't have to go back later.

    Georgia:  Gerogia has experience in working with data as well, and has been a great mediator in translating ideas and changes in the Slack channel and on calls.  She has graciously volunteered herself to be in the hot seat, typing up documents and organixing them in real-time as we work through team assignments together on Zoom.  She also set up our team Trello board. Georgia has a really great, upbeat energy and has offered to help other teammates when they need it.

    Valerie: Valerie took the initiative to set up our Github repo and get us moving.  She is responsible for finding the dataset we decided to move forward with as a team and reminded us/offered resources for those team members who may need addiditional guidance/did not have a lot of previous experience in working with GitHub.  Valerie is a great communicator and is able to express herself well if she did not feel her needs were not being met as a team member/explained how she works so we understand moving forward with picking up scrum tasks.  She also reached out to me when I missed a meeting that I miscommunicated about needing to be present, catching me up on the points of the meeting that I had missed.

What did you learn as a team this week?

    I think we learned how much each team member is really committed to the success of this project, and more importantly to each other.  Our styles may be different, but in the end we complement each other well. We learned how to work our way through the growing pains of being a new team, the obstacles that came up, and how to best communicate with one another. 

    On the technical side, there points emerged that needed to be worked through/understood as we changed from the regression style we started with and moved through the wrangling. 

What did you learn as an individual this week?

    Personally, I connect with the points in the 'team learning' from above.  
    It's also definitely a different dynamic when the pieces are split and not moving through the task from start to finish yourself. It's a learning curve going back to piece the separate tasks together.  