Scrum Master for next week: Erin Weaver

List at least 5 things the team did well and will continue doing:
1.	Team was able to complete exploratory tasks by the deadline anticipated.
2.	When other team members reached out for help on tasks/feedback others were eager to offer guidance/feedback.
3.	Generative/thoughtful ideas about tasks as we piece the project together and move forward.
4.	When there is team feedback, we can work well to get tasks completed efficiently.
5.  When a team member did admit what they felt was a shortcoming, other team members were supportive in uplifting
    in that circumstance.

List at least 3 things the team did poorly and how you will mitigate them next sprint.

1.	Communication is the largest obstacle for the team.  Some members are more vocal. 
One team member was bit under the weather and not as vocal at first, but eventually non-response made it clear that 
she shut down with communication amongst the team.  

I tried to share my frustrations, those that were catching me up in the beginning of the project that I needed to work through---my felt, initial short comings and how I moved with ideas for alternative solutions, but she remained silent throughout the week.  
She did not offer any alternative solutions to her frustrations and did not vocalize them to the team. Instead, she went and did things her own way after we had set a plan and agrees as a team earlier in the week.
When we did a Slack call after the instructor meeting, she intentionally chose not to join the call with the rest of the team.Solution: I’m still trying to figure out the reasons for communication shut down; do others do not feel respected, heard, do they not trust the team to speak out.  For solutions to be reached, there must be communication. I don’t want to insert myself into another’s feelings, but it is something that will be addressed at the beginning of our next meeting before we move forward with any task agenda. 

2.	Daily stand-up issues.  This week we began moving into more issues with the daily stand-up forms started in 
Week 1 because of the conflicting team schedules.  Three team members remained consistent, one after encouragement, 
and the final one refused, coming from a place of attack as if they were being used to micromanage or poke at, 
she was not pulling her weight.

There has not been an issue with people not contributing ideas in the weekly team meeting or pulling their 
weight in the tasks in Trello, however.Both in private messaging and through our Slack channel, 
I tried to open the door to explaining the purpose, I even linked back to Week 1 instructions in the group Slack.  
Another member shared her point of view with her experience.

Solution: Move from the combative tone some members of the team have taken as they are moving through their own 
frustrations and to a more solution-oriented approach.  This will likely need to take place in our Zoom meeting, 
away from the messaging where people need to be accountable face-to-face and are not aggressive/ passive with their
tone.

3.	Pace of the project. The pace of the project itself has felt off, both with the communication issues and the 
timeline the team took from the project. Now that we know we can move forward with the pace, if we don’t fall behind, 
I think that alleviates some of the pressure. One member expressed to me a frustration with the process, 
like we rushed through Week 2, and she was not sure about the evaluation questions.  
Although there have been several asks from other team members about expressing their opinions, 
she has not advocated for her own concerns.

Solution: It’s hard to help when communication is not present. Concerns need to be vocalized to the team for change 
to occur.  Feedback has been encouraged numerous times before we move forward with a task/decision.  
I believe I can facilitate some mediation if necessary. 

To the concern expressed about the rushing: Some of this is alleviated again because we can move forward at a pace
suited to our team.  However, I will put it into a perspective, without attacking, with the things that we could 
have moved on last week after Thursday’s meeting and after the Wednesday feedback from Matthew, but we didn’t 
because we were looking for feedback from the entire team---and how now that is going to add pressure moving 
forward because we could have mapped our GitHub, started assigning small tasks to be finished or picked up over 
the long weekend instead of being at a halt.

I’m also going to remind them of the items in Week 6, that even if we don’t find significance it’s okay and can 
show strength to recruiters that we weren’t trying to create what wasn’t there. I had also previously/privately 
suggested that because this is a group project that we move forward with a strong team project and process to see 
where it leads. We could show recruiters the strength of our team, but also do a 2nd portfolio project to answer 
additional questions we had/wrangle it with the white wine data in the original data set---to show both team 
strengths and our individual strengths at the same time.  I received no response from that alternative solution.


List shout-outs to any team members for excelling in any way: 

    Bethel and Valerie have been excellent at providing feedback/ideas this week as we move the project forward.

What did you learn as a team this week?

	How crucial communication is to the team/overall project.

What did you learn as an individual this week?

	Given mentor feedback/suggestions, I learned and explored ideas for an ideal GitHub repo.  
    This week reinforced team/personality dynamics and how important the team relationship is to the overall project product.


    